So why use mainframes?
Because no two businesses are alike,
even competitors in the same field.
Mainframes need to be open,
adaptable and ever-evolving.
And that's before we even talk about the
processing power, or the system capacity.
Because mainframes the built for business,
they need to support anything a business
could possibly want as part
of their business model.
When the first companies
started using Linux,
Linux became a supported operating system.
When open source software and
hybrid cloud models started becoming
part of the way work gets done.
You started seeing APIs and cloud-ready
solutions appear on the Mainframe.
What I'm getting at here is,
is that if it's important,
you'll find it here on the mainframe.
So for example,
let's talk about Linux for a minute.
Because this is a great example of
something that runs really well on Z.
Linux runs great on my
rented Cloud instance,
it runs great on the server under my desk,
it even runs on my Raspberry Pi.
So why do I want to run Linux on the
mainframe, is it going to run any better?
Well, what if I could make a Linux
instance with 15 processors and
a couple gigs of memory?
And I also wanted to access 32
different storage area networks and
a couple of different network VLANs.
Well, I can get that big
powerful Linux system.
But I can also run that Linux with all of
its data being encrypted, at all times,
through pervasive encryption.
So that's possible and that's pretty cool.
I could build five more of
those same exact servers,
without needing five times the physical
resources because of virtualization.
That's a huge bonus.
I can even bring up Linux Docker instances
within the z/OS operating system,
where they can run right
next to z/OS applications.
So I don't need a full system image,
if there's just one specific
application in need.
Part of the big reason for running things
on the mainframe is consolidation.
Now companies are always looking for
ways to save money on operations.
So in addition to being able to bring
all of those compute resources,
like the CPU and memory into one big box.
Companies are also able to consolidate
things like power supplies,
networking adaptors and cooling.
Having one larger efficient
cooling unit in a mainframe,
is much better than having 300
individual CPU fans out there.
In business, you'll often find two
major types of transactions happening.
There's real time transactions,
that's like stuff that is reactionary,
event-based, needs-to-happen right now.
That's stuff like swiping a credit card,
making a purchase,
changing your insurance policy.
That stuff needs to happen instantly.
And then there's batch processes, which
we've talked about a little bit before.
But that kind of summarizes changes
in actions that have happened during
a period of time.
Like figuring out paychecks, or figuring
out your phone bill for the month,
those are batch processes.
The mainframe excels in doing both,
from a performance security and
a data integrity point of view.
Just to give an idea about how
prevalent the mainframe is and
what a powerhouse it is in business.
They power 68% of the world's
production workloads, 68%.
That's that's more than half,
its quite a bit more than half, yeah,
it's two-thirds,
that's more than two-thirds.
So despite running two-thirds of
the world's production workloads,
they take up only 6% of the total IT cost.
Think about that, 6%, to run 68%,
okay, I'm a little bit biased.
But I happen to think that even if I
wasn't sitting in an IBM studio right now,
that would still impress me.
And that's why I'm so excited you're
here to learn all about the IBM Z.
You'll walk into a job interview and
tell them, you know Parallel Sysplex,
IODF configs.
You put down on a résumé that you
know about z/OS components and
how to manage mainframe security.
You're putting yourself in a great place.
I hope you're having fun,
I know I am, because these
skills are great ones to have.